I went on a journey and I went
all over the Amazon try and find
out the truth about the Amazon
this idea of these nasty people
destroying amazon they're not
just people trying to make a
living
my source is endless poverty
trend three years ago now I've
got an illegal coca plantation
bomb estate these are all coca
leaves they have the highest
alkaloid content of any coca
leaves in the world which means
I'm it really good cocaine and
they're mine so I became a coke
allured by mistake
now I didn't mean to buy a
cocaine plantation obviously but
I bought over the phone a friend
of mine fonia and he said
there's this piece of land at
the end of a logging road and
then at the head of the National
Park needs someone to buy it
the illegal loggers are going up
there but the best track going
through the land and into the
National Park cover hardwood
trees and if someone can buy
that piece of land we stand a
chance of protecting that part
of money national part but what
I actually got you know when I
got there and sort of several
months later was you know
hundred acres of severely
degraded secondary rainforest
and two actors of legal coke i
also got an illegal logging camp
with an illegal loggers living
in it that's silly ass there on
the right i bought the land of
Tito his dad here on the left
and ilyass was one of the most
infamous infamous notorious
illegal loggers in the area the
national parks hated in he was a
thief he was a liar he was this
he was that and as a result i
was actually terrified of him he
was so muscley I've never seen a
human being i can't get it from
that picture but yeah anyways
terrified him
um
and I would campaign might
camped on the land when i first
went there not a lie down i
could hear the chain stores at
night not coming in the morning
been massive pile hardwood like
in the driveway to my land and
then two hours later at gone
this kind of went on that went
on and then one day so we were
filming this is part of a TV
documentary and Gavin the
director said to me you know you
really gotta go meet this guy
and i said i'm scared i don't
want to and I talked to national
parks what is it you've bought
the most dangerous piece of land
off the most dangerous family in
the most dangerous part southern
Peru and you know that scared
the hell out of me and I'm
camping on it and a few years
earlier in exactly the same spot
where i was campaigning a group
of geologists had been basically
held up with guns and robbed it
was a scary prospect so I didn't
want to meet
ilyass right Gavin said you're
going to have to any force me to
do it so we march to the first
and I tracked early and it's
really hard to find
I tracked him through i could
find wet footprints and we did
this for an hour adventure her
to change some and basically I
doorstep this man in the middle
of cutting a tree down with a
whole film crew and it was a
really weird moment because you
learn how it's good you know
really remote far the Amazon
this bloke turns out with a boom
pole and the kick-out
anyway it's not gonna attack us
is it every sat down and we hung
out and you know nice like
basically suspect you got you
got to leave you know your is
not working you can't stay on
this land
you aren't you you're the bad
illegal or I don't want you
understand you're gonna have to
leave and he he spun me this
line about how he had a disabled
daughter and it's all he could
do you know to survive and keep
her you know keep this family
life and you know I didn't
believe him going to show you
this
yeah
what's that
that honor goes to yeah that
went on you
Cinco which I just thought I'd
coming now say hi to your family
get it
yeah yeah yeahs cuando se cuando
nacido en los tres meses cuando
estaba haciendo que la raspa k
Sandstrom hasta Mia Rose
antonidas in your medicine ball
sack o mio job Mako hello moto
de mean I ya empieza la ciudad
well Elmo todo est bien SE que
est muerta bientot ma de quoi
cuenta de que haciendo y los
tres anos tienes miedo porque
nada nomas estaba lloviendo me
jose nobile colegio bajar de los
ninos de bonnes choses de
suspenso inclusive God a.m.
interment video was a yummy
porque se siente la misma
mediados de otro pero solo digo
pero lo siento
don't want to be alone oh no
this made my decision
infinitely more complicated as
all agree my mind I was going to
kill us off the land until I
went to his house and what's a
busted would I be if I did
there's no way behind every
terrific story like a bunch of
decent people just trying to
survive right and I was
completely unarmed as a human
being to do what I had no idea
what i was going to do so I went
on a journey to find out the
truth about the Amberson trying
to find that how can we tackle
these problems with it and we
can tackle my understanding them
so i went on a kind of journey
of understanding this is Erasmus
he's one of 35,000 gold miners
in southern Peru the gold mining
is a huge environmental problem
you know this is like a
modern-day Gold Rush but these
guys are chasing dust they're
not chasing nuggets and they use
a whole load of chemicals within
that process mercury
particularly if i give you a
sense of scale learn there's a
truck and . there you see that
you start realizing how big is
this whole town's of cropped up
to supply this trade in town of
thousands of people as
prostitution as human
trafficking it's just Crimea's
it's a horrible modern-day Gold
Rush so i went to work with
Erasmus on his gold mine mrs.
one day they got this is six and
a half grams of 24-karat gold
that's what about a hundred
ninety bucks so it takes around
20 tons of toxic waste to make
it a gold wedding ring is little
clip of
love me then that every 16 hours
the matter rinse and shaken act
before the gold-bearing sludge
is scraped into a barrel
vegetables this video is it
low-key a lawyer as much as
Peters giver is a local no
porque la quinta they will go to
plus they fail those using them
included within 15 min tops
equal 3 is in Sudan you can come
your me of your local sprint a
dose annuals in order to the new
model series mixing the mercury
with with the sludge it wasn't
meant to know their you know you
had called it for more cool
about your care law no order
SI se it's our particle Thomas
indo- mente and tell a stopper
bead I make no other thing
morphia if we community seems
cool you know
nosotros no tenemos a capital
like what is so astonishing
achievement tournament in the
map
mercury poisoning can result in
brain damage kidney damage lung
failure and possibly miscarriage
illegal miners dumped nearly 30
tons of this heavy metal in
Peruvian rivers every year and a
recent study found that many
people in local communities at
mercury levels in their bodies
five times the safe limit
somebody in that gold CN so
that's the image i took that guy
was doing stuff that miraculous
feat for an hour when you do
that you realize these guys are
rich
okay the bad guys aren't rich
the gold miners are no one's
getting rich off this at all
it's actually the reverse this
guy wanted to go to university
had gone to become a gold miner
to save up the University he was
never going to go to university
was poisoning himself to death
yet been paid for two weeks
the other two workers the work
that hadn't been paid for three
months you know my saw is this
endless poverty cycle is just
wrap it was stuck in this
poverty trap that they couldn't
get out the longer they work to
not got paid the more they were
committed to work so it's all
really just miserable and tragic
this was this is where we got
our water from and washed every
day said mercury tailing the
sort of gold mine tailing pond
for the mercury so it makes you
realize that these guys aren't
there now
first you know this idea of
these nasty people destroying
the Amazon they're not they're
just people trying to make a
living